.TH EPISCAN-CLI 1 "2026" "EpiScan" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
episcan-cli \- static code and network security scanner
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B episcan-cli
.B \-\-code
.I path
[\fB\-\-report\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB\-\-format\fR \fIjson|html|md\fR]
.br
.B episcan-cli
.B \-\-all-system
[\fB\-\-report\fR \fIpath\fR]
.br
.B episcan-cli
.B \-\-network
.I host
[\fB\-\-port-start\fR \fIn\fR] [\fB\-\-port-end\fR \fIn\fR] [\fB\-\-report\fR \fIpath\fR]
.br
.B episcan-cli
.B \-\-code
.I path
.B \-\-network
.I host
[\fB\-\-report\fR \fIpath\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B episcan-cli
analyzes source code for vulnerability patterns (SQL/command injection, weak
cryptography, unsafe C/C++ functions, buffer-handling issues, dangerous shell
one-liners) and/or performs a network scan (open ports, banner grabbing,
service identification, SSL/TLS audit) against a host. Findings are scored
with CVSS v3.1 and written to a JSON, HTML, or Markdown report.
.SH MODES
.TP
.B analyze
Triggered by \fB\-\-code\fR or \fB\-\-all-system\fR. Scans a file or directory
tree for vulnerable code patterns.
.TP
.B network
Triggered by \fB\-\-network\fR. Scans a host's TCP ports, grabs service
banners, and runs an SSL/TLS audit on detected HTTPS-like ports.
.TP
.B full
Pass both \fB\-\-code\fR and \fB\-\-network\fR to run both and merge the
results into a single report.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-code " " \fIpath\fR
Directory or file to scan for code vulnerabilities.
.TP
.B \-\-all-system
Scan the whole system starting from \fB/\fR (Linux only). Mutually exclusive
with an explicit \fB\-\-code\fR path other than \fB/\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-network " " \fIhost\fR
Run a network scan (ports, banners, SSL audit) against \fIhost\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-port-start " " \fIn\fR
First port scanned in network mode (default: 1).
.TP
.BR \-\-port-end " " \fIn\fR
Last port scanned in network mode (default: 1024).
.TP
.BR \-\-report " " \fIpath\fR
Output report path (default: \fBreport.json\fR). If a previous report
already exists at this path, the new report records the delta in finding
count versus that previous scan.
.TP
.BR \-\-format " " \fI{json,html,md}\fR
Report format. If omitted, the format is inferred from \fB\-\-report\fR's
file extension (\fB.html\fR/\fB.htm\fR, \fB.md\fR/\fB.markdown\fR, otherwise
JSON).
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Scan a source tree and write an HTML report:
.B episcan-cli \-\-code ./src \-\-report report.html
.TP
Scan all 65535 ports of a host and write JSON:
.B episcan-cli \-\-network 192.168.1.10 \-\-port-end 65535 \-\-report net.json
.TP
Full scan (code + network) as Markdown:
.B episcan-cli \-\-code ./src \-\-network 127.0.0.1 \-\-report full.md \-\-format md
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B 0
on success, non-zero on error (invalid arguments, unreadable target, etc).
The error message is printed to stderr.
.SH NOTES
The network CVE/vulnerable-version check is intentionally offline (a local
signature table) rather than a live NVD API lookup, so the tool has no
network dependency beyond the scan target itself.
.SH SEE ALSO
The GUI front-end
.BR episcan (1)
and the traffic-capture tool
.BR episcan-net (1)
ship alongside
.BR episcan-cli .
Full documentation: \fIdocs/user_guide.md\fR in the EpiScan repository.
